INSTALLATION GUIDE
==================

This document describes how to set up the document broker and template server
as two different services on the same server, on the same domain or possibly on
two different domains.

The main installation program is called "install.sh".

NOTE: This installation program will only work on Debian-like systems and has
only been tested on Ubuntu 12.04 server. It should be able to run on all
systems that support networking and Python, but the installation process will
be more manual. Refer to the INSTALL.manual file for more information about the
setup.

NOTE: The template server includes a gallery application called Photologue
which may be used to upload pictures for inclusion in documents.

This will NOT work out of the box, however, due to a bug in the packaging of
the Python Imaging Library (PIL). We have decided not to include a patch for
this in the installation script because we hope that the bug may be fixed
upstream.

In the meanwhile, if you wish to enable users to upload images, you MUST enable
proper JPEG support in PIL by following the instructions in this forum post:

http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10804763&postcount=2


DOWNLOAD AND UNPACK
+++++++++++++++++++

To start installation, you must first get hold of the source distribution.

You may, e.g., download and unpack the latest version from here:

    https://svn.softwareborsen.dk/DokumentBroker/releases/


After downloading, unpack the distribution wherever you want to install the
Document Broker. We suggest that the system is installed in such a way that
the directory and files are not owned by root but (e.g.) by a dedicated user
which could be called "document_broker" or "db".

Note that the install script requires sudo access. When root privileges are
required, you will be prompted to enter your password.


INSTALLATION
++++++++++++

After unpacking, navigate to the directory where you have placed the
distribution, e.g. /home/db/document_broker-0.1.3/ and call the install script:

    cd /home/db/document_broker-0.1.3
    ./install.sh <broker-domain> [<template-domain>]

The parameter <broker-domain> is the full domain name on which you wish to
locate the document broker" (the Fully Qualified Domain Name or FQDN), e.g.
"document-broker.magenta-aps.dk" (this is the default).

During the installation, you will be prompted a number of times, mainly to
inform you what's happening and ask you to confirm.

NOTE: A working internet connection with access to Ubuntu/Debian repositories
and Python packages (PyPI) is required for this script to work. If some
repository specified in /etc/apt/sources.list or the Python Package Index is
unavailable, the script will fail and terminate. In that case, please try 
again later.

* If required packages are missing on your system, you will be informed that
  they will be installed:

      Some dependencies are missing. The following packages will be installed:
      git postgresql-common
      Press ENTER to continue, CTRL-C to abort.

  Please wait while the missing packages are installed on your system. Enter
  your password if prompted.

* The installation script will now install the virtual environment in which the
  document broker will run:

      Setting up virtualenv. Press ENTER to continue, CTRL-C to abort.
      This may take a while ...

  This process will download and install a large number of Python packages, so 
  please be patient and wait until the next prompt appears. Do not hit ENTER or
  otherwise enter characters on the keyboard.

* Next, the Apache setup will be generated and copied to your
  /etc/apache2/sites-available:
  
      Setting up Apache ... press ENTER to continue, CTRL-C to abort.    

  This will not take a lot of time. 
  
  NOTE: If you have special requirements regarding paths, domain names
  or ports, you will have to modify the Apache setup files manually
  after the installation is complete.

* You are now prompted to create the databases required:

      Setup succeeded so far. Press ENTER to set up database, CTRL-C to abort.

  You will be asked to create a super user for EACH database - please enter
  suitable login details. 

  NOTE: An SQLite database is now used by default. If you require a PostgreSQL
  database, please change/uncomment the relevant settings in
  document_broker/document_broker/settings.py and
  document_templates/document_templates/settings.py and refer to the file
  INSTALL.manual for instructions on setting up the PostgreSQL databases.

* Installation is now done! Congratulations - the working URLs of your broker
  and template sites are output to the terminal:

      Installation complete and (as far as I can tell) successful.

      Please verify component sites exist and can be accessed.

      Access the templates broker admin site via:

      http://aarhus.magenta-aps.dk/document_broker/admin/

      Access the templates admin site via:
      http://aarhus.magenta-aps.dk/document_templates/admin/

      Access the demo site via:
      http://aarhus.magenta-aps.dk/document_broker/demo/


During installation, output from apt-get and the Python installer is written to
the file install_log.txt.  If something goes wrong during installation, please
refer to that log file and the terminal output to troubleshoot. You may also
have to modify the default Apache configuration and/or check your firewall
settings.


